Dabigatran is an oral direct thrombin inhibitor administered as the pharmacologically inactive prodrug dabigatran etexilate. Following its absorption, dabigatran etexilate undergoes enzymatic hydrolysis via the carboxylesterases CES1 in the liver and CES2 in the intestine to produce the active moiety dabigatran. The processes involved in the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion for dabigatran result in low oral bioavailability (~6–7%) and moderate interindividual variability.

Following the activation of the prodrug to dabigatran (or following intravenous administration of dabigatran itself), dabigatran undergoes glucuronidation to dabigatran acylglucuronide, which contributes to total active exposure. Therefore, often the sum of dabigatran + dabigatran glucuronide = "total dabigatran" is reported. Absorption of the prodrug dabigatran etexilate is strongly influenced by P-glycoprotein (P-gp), making P-gp activity a key determinant of systemic dabigatran exposure and drug–drug interaction (DDI) potential.

The presented whole-body PBPK model is based on the model developed by [Moj et al. 2019](#main-references) and includes dabigatran etexilate, dabigatran and the pharmacologically active metabolite dabigatran acylglucuronide. It was established to be used for DDI prediction, because dabigatran etexilate is a widely used P-gp substrate in clinical DDI studies.  

The herein presented model building and evaluation report evaluates the performance of the PBPK model for dabigatran in healthy adults. 
